# CS499Project

As a software engineer, I’ve spent many years working on honing my skills in programming as well as algorithm and overall software design. Though I haven’t always had the best practices, I’ve kept a learning mindset and always sought to improve and think critically about what I’m doing. I may not always have the best practices ideas at the time, or do things the ‘correct’ way according to a language, but I’ve always found a way to solve the problem, and have always sought to improve and learn from each project. In my 10 years of experience as a developer, I’ve worked in many languages, many tech stacks and many different dynamics. The most important takeaway from my journey I’ve had has been to always have a learning mindset. No matter if you are a beginner or an expert, with how fast tech changes and how much information is out there, there will always be more to learn. 

The three projects presented in this portfolio consist of a showcase of algorithms, software engineering and database work. I find that these are the three most important aspects of development in general (though it could be argued that knowing cloud technology and infrastructure are pretty critical as well).  For these, I’ve chosen some older works of mine to improve: some problems from Project Euler for algorithms, a Sudoku Solver written in C# for software engineering and a MongoDB project for a previous CS course to show my database capabilities. I think this demonstrates a good balance of smaller and larger works, as well as effectively demonstrating each of these facets of development with the bonus of using different tech stacks. Each of these projects I kept mostly small, only a couple thousand lines, so that it doesn’t become overwhelming to read, and I could make improvements in a reasonable amount of time for an 8 week course. This can be combined with my experience outside of my personal and academic areas to showcase a well rounded career. 

One aspect of myself as a software developer is that I’ve always been able to adapt to new technologies and languages. I started my career writing in C, moved to C++, then Python, Java, Perl, Ruby and most recently PHP. For databases, I’ve done MySQL, Microsoft FoxPro, SQLite, Postgres and MongoDB. I’ve also dabbled in C#, R, Go, Haskell, x86 assembly and I’m always looking at what other people have done. I took data science courses online, I created an Android app using tutorials, and have competed in coding competitions such as Google’s Code Jam. I’ve had opportunities to go to coding events, such as OSCON and attended job fairs, networking events and meetups. All of this experience, in addition to my education and professional experience have built a more rounded developer. I hope to keep gaining more experience in the future, such as in my current role as a Senior Software Engineer. 

What I would like to be able to show outside of this portfolio can be shown well on my resume. I started my coding career working as a mobile DJ and running the website for the business, working with SEO technology such as Google Adwords to get views, while also maintaining database systems for clients to be able to interact with the site and request dates and create playlists. This was a fairly barebones site at first, but it did enough to keep my business. From there, I worked in a data processing facility, turning customer data into database files used for bulk mailing. This was a production environment, where I learned to work with non technical workers, and in a fast passed environment. Following this, I had an opportunity to work on my first full fledged ‘software engineer’ role, where I built timeclock software that integrated components such as a fingerprint reader, speaker and camera. This gave me embedded systems experience which I found to be quite a natural fit for me, as I worked a couple of embedded jobs. I worked for a couple big companies doing web development, and found myself an expert in Agile methodologies, and have a good understanding on how to work with small and large teams, as well as small companies with startup atmospheres and large companies with big process and a lot of rules to follow. I prefer somewhere in the middle, but I’m happy working with any company that has an interesting product for me to develop. For me, I have had the most success as a developer when I was building something tangible, but I can definitely look back and see that what I worked on is still out there in the world being used. 

Overall, I hope that this coding portfolio shows that I’m a well-rounded developer, always looking to gain more experience and reflect upon my past. From simple coding exercises and small projects to building more complicated systems, I feel comfortable working as a developer on just about anything that the future will throw at me. Though I always hold a special place for working in C and building in embedded systems, I hope to push myself into more web development, data science, and overall more modern architecture. This is one thing that I feel this portfolio doesn’t yet demonstrate, but should once I have more personal projects that utilize these technologies to show off. I’ve worked more recently in this type of workflow, though in my professional career, where software is often protected from being shared publicly. My biggest struggle in more recent years is spending most of my coding time in a professional role, which doesn’t lead to having much of a portfolio to demonstrate. Still, at the end of the day it’s more important that I see my code out in the world being used instead of just having something to show off. At the end of the day, using my software skills to provide value to the world around me is the most important part of being a developer. 
	

